---
layout: about
permalink: /teachingphilosophy/
title: Teaching Philosophy
published: true
---
## Teaching Philosophy

Writing scholar and teacher Nancy Sommers writes, "With writing and with
teaching, as well as with love, we don't know how the sentence will
begin and, rarely ever, how it will end. Having the courage to live with
uncertainty, ambiguity, even doubt, we can walk into all of those fields
of writing, knowing that we will find volumes upon volumes bidding us
enter" (428). I've been thinking a lot lately about how I can help
students face that "uncertainty, ambiguity, even doubt" that Sommers
highlights. The world can seem to preclude such notions, encouraging
students to never be wrong---or at least never admit it---and to elevate
some "facts" over others based not on reasoning or evidence but rather
preexisting points-of-view. I want my classroom, then, to be a space
where students can start to become comfortable with uncertainty and even
failure.

This starts with modeling ambiguity and ambivalence in my own thinking
to demonstrate that there is not a singular way to think, read, or
write. Rather than see the texts we read and write about as unassailable
authorities, I want students to test what authors say against their own
experiences and see their work as jumping off points. I remind them,
too, that changing your mind can be a sign of learning as opposed to
flimsy convictions. When it comes to writing itself, what can seem like
the "right" way to go about something is often a limiting construct. In
the case of writing and language, in particular, such constructed
notions often grow out of histories of subjugation and marginalization
that continue to advantage some identities, groups, and languages over
others. I share with students work by translingual scholars like Bruce
Horner, Min-Zhan Lu, Jacqueline Jones Royster, and John Trimbur, who
encourage "reading with patience, respect for perceived differences
within and across languages, and an attitude of deliberative inquiry,"
remembering that "deviations from dominant expectations need not be
errors; that conformity need not be automatically advisable; and that
writers' purposes and readers' conventional expectations are neither
fixed nor unified" (304). These kinds of ideas tend to surprise
students, who have so often been acculturated through their schooling to
look for the single, correct solution. But I think that's all the more
reason to create space in a writing classroom to sit with, test, and
reflect on different perspectives. I want my students to see the value
of letting go of fixed assumptions about writing and instead embrace
uncertainty. Uncertainty leads to inquiry, which leads to learning and,
sometimes, new knowledge that can then be shared with others.

When I say I want to expose my students to failure, I'm not referring to
their transcripts. Instead, I want my students to know that failure is
as much a part of life---and especially writing and learning---as
success is. It's just not as celebrated. I tell my students that writing
is hard, and that I struggle with writing, and so does every writer I
know (with "writer" here meaning simply any person who writes, no matter
what form that writing takes). But failure isn't a chronic condition.
It's a temporary state on the way to achieving something more than we
previously thought possible. Responding to a student's writing, then,
means more than reading it to find and explain what's wrong or could be
better. Instead, feedback is a conversation involving the writer,
classmates, and myself where we can all work together to help the writer
figure out how to improve the piece in ways that respect the writer's
intentionality and design. That means giving students plenty of
opportunities to test out strategies and ideas, assess how things went,
and then revise. Students in my classes are encouraged to revise their
writing as much and as often as they'd like to continue developing and
working out their ideas. This process makes student growth and learning
throughout the semester explicit, and my students frequently comment on
the development they see in their writing. Typical comments on
end-of-semester surveys include statements like, "The course had many
revision opportunities, which really fosters a comfortable environment
that is very conducive to learning and growth, not just satisfying an
assignment," and, "I really liked how feedback was given in the course.
I never considered myself that great of a writer but I found that after
taking into account the feedback from Professor Bryan and my peers, my
writing has improved significantly."

If I've learned anything in my years writing and teaching, it's that
writing is not some innate ability you either have or you don't. What
distinguishes the persistent writers I know is an acceptance and even
embrace of failure as part of the process, an understanding that there
is always more than one right way to do something, and a real curiosity
about languages, the ideas of others, and the writing process itself.
Students won't leave my class ready to write in every situation they
might encounter---that's not possible in a single semester. Instead, I
want them to leave feeling like writers who can fail, who can learn, who
can keep going, and, in doing so, become exactly the writers they want
to be.

#### Works Cited

Horner, Bruce, et al. "Language Difference in Writing: Toward a
Translingual Approach." *College English*, vol. 73, no. 3, 2011, pp.
303-21.

Sommers, Nancy. "I Stand Here Writing." *College English*, vol. 55, no.
4, 1993, pp. 420-28.